This right here is a lowrisk setup. Why? This type of setup is called a trend line break. Now is the time we are talking about the break and retest. What is the break and retest? Same system, same setup, same criteria. So this is why this is called a bounce playbook or a bounce setup. We're going to drag this stop loss on the other side of the safety line. This is the goal that we're working towards. This right here is the strategy. Dude, are y'all ready to rip and roll? You ready? Because we're getting into strategy. And this is my absolute favorite part. This is where I just feel so excited because I'm about to blow you guys' mind. Now, this is also going to be very visual. So, we're starting with understanding the strategy first and foremost. Then, we will get into actually going through it together step by step after. But, I need you guys to see it done. I need you guys to see the examples, see the system, see the step-by-step process visually before we go in and do this together. This is it right here. This is the holy grail. This is the system. This is everything. It is the trend line. A trend line is a simple tool that helps us see the direction of a price visually. The tool that we're actually going to be using is called technically it's called the ray tool, but we're going to call it a trend line. I don't know why they don't just call it a trend line, but the the actual tool in Trading View is called the ray tool. So, this is the the literal definition of our downward trend lines. First of all, we have to make sure it's angled downward. Second of all, we have to try to capture as many touch points as possible. But then the third most important key here is it cannot break through. Price can't cross through. It cannot poke through. We are truly envisioning this line holding the price down. This is an example of price cutting through or price breaking through here. So take a screenshot and then make a note. This is wrong, wrong, wrong. Don't draw your line like this. So an upward trend line, a correct upward trend line will be on the very bottom of price, holding it up, not intersecting, angling up. And I also usually will like to change the colors of them. This one is red. I'll usually like to make my upward trend lines green. We'll get into that and we'll have a lot more detail coming up. So just bear with me. Stay tuned here. In both cases, the trend line is our guide for following the market's movement. Top down analysis means that we are starting from the highest time frame and working our way down. And I'm going to just do a quick example or um a uh explanation here. So top down analysis, we want to see what something has done overall. A bird's eye view. What has Apple done from day one to today overall? And then the top down analysis. So that's the top part. Now the down top down analysis means that we are working our way down down time frames. Whoops. Sorry I didn't mean to hit that. So top bigger picture bird's eye view overall down means that we are slowly coming in closer and closer and closer. Smaller time frame smaller time frame smaller time frame top down analysis starting from the top working our way down. Also remember what does price action mean? Price action just simply means and you'll hear me say this a lot if you don't know the term. It just means the movement of the price, seeing the candles populate on the chart, how it moves, price action. As we begin marking up our trends, we need to start from the very top. This is where the top down analysis, this is where the process and the step comes into play. We start at the top. Then we zoom in lower and lower and lower. We will continue to mark our trends using price action. So, we're just trying to track as much movement as possible. The goal is always going to be the same. We're drawing trend lines and capturing touch points. And we're just kind of doing it over and over again. We're drawing trend lines. We're drawing trend lines. We're drawing trend lines. We're drawing trend lines. But we're just adding structure to it. We're adding rules to it. We're adding steps to it. But remember here, this is one of the key things. We cannot have price intersect or cut through. This is now some of you guys, um, this is a quick side note that I'm just going to address this one time for the experienced traders. Um, for the newbies, just close your ears. For those of you guys asking about um wicks or bodies or candles or bars or types of charts, the information I'm giving you guys today is my system and my strategy. This is how I do it. I do I include the wicks when I do the top down analysis. I am including price action. This is my system and this is the way that I've been able to repeat my process over and over again by giving this top down analysis so much structure. All right, another point to remember with the top down analysis. As we move down to lower time frames, we will always want to connect our trend lines. All trend lines are going to connect to one another. Each line that we draw on the chart has to connect to the last one. So, we always want to connect our previous higher time frame trend lines to our new trend lines. As we continue, everything's going to connect. For the newbies, just think all of our lines have to touch. They have to touch each other. They got to love each other. They got to love upon each other. Every single line we draw will connect to one another. So when we do our top down analysis, we are going to start from a monthly time frame, a high time frame. This is a bird's eye view. When you see this dinosaur icon on trading view, that means you are looking at the very beginning. This is what the price of whatever instrument this is has done from the very beginning to today. Okay? So when we're drawing our lines, we want to make sure we're using the same rules. Price doesn't intersect. Price isn't crossing through. We are trying to capture as many touch points as possible. Our downward lines angle down and our upward lines angle up. This right here is an example of a top- down analysis done on a monthly time frame. This is the step one of top- down analysis. Step one of top- down analysis right here. Monthly time frame. Big picture. Drawing our trend lines, making sure they all connect. Now, we're going to see this done in real time. So, watch this video with us. We're going to look at the highest point we see on the screen and we are simply going to try to capture as many touch points as possible. In that example, we were only able to capture two touch points. But you see here, nothing intersected. Price did not intersect. Now, as we do our top down analysis, we started at the monthly. Remember, it's called a topdown analysis. So, we started at the monthly. Now, we're going to work our way down to a lower time frame. There we go. This is what it looks like to move from the monthly to the weekly. We're connecting all of our trend lines beautifully. Boom. We captured our touch points. Price is not crossing through. So, we're just simply working through our top down analysis. Top down, monthly, weekly. Now, we're going to move to the daily. So, we're going to time frames. We're selecting daily. We're making sure that all of our trend lines connect. We're making sure that price doesn't intersect or poke through. This was an example of showing that our previous section where we had it didn't work because price was crossing through. So, we had to use that last touch point. Here we go. And we repeat the process. We continue to draw more and more and more trend lines until we make it to our designated time frame. Beautiful. So, this is what if you were to be trading a daily time frame and did your top down analysis, you would stop right there. That would be it. That would be what your top down analysis looks like. But this process gives us structure to how we draw our trend lines. This is something that we can do on every chart. Now, I will preface it with this. Some instruments are going to be a lot easier to do a top down analysis than others. Some price action is a little bit crazier. Some price action has only been creating higher highs, higher highs, higher highs where we don't have downward trend lines to draw. This was a great example though of top- down analysis on an instrument. platinum where we can draw upward trend lines and downward trend lines and we move from the top down monthly, weekly, daily and then we'll continue to go lower and lower and lower 4 hour, 1 hour, 30 minute, 5 minute but we repeat this process and we're going to do it together but this is the the introduction or the basics of top down analysis. Now strategy the main idea here is simplicity. So we're trying to keep things simple. Price action will often respect trend lines, which is pretty insane and it blows my mind every time when it does. It will either bounce off of the lines that we draw or it will break the lines that we draw. But this is where everything kind of comes together here. When the reason why we have this rule of not allowing price to break through when we draw our trend lines is because when price finally does break, that gives us our indication to start taking action. And I'm foreshadowing a little bit here, but there is a reason why we have this top down analysis system or why we structure it this way. Okay. Now, this is the most basic overview. This is actually done perfectly. The graphics are perfect. The lines are perfect. The example price action is perfect. Go ahead and screenshot this one. This right here essentially, you guys, is the strategy in an absolute literal nutshell in one singular illustration. Now, we're just going to be breaking it down as much as we possibly can today. This right here is the strategy. This is the reason why we have that rule of our top down analysis. When marking up our charts, when drawing our trend lines, when doing our top down analysis, we have to make sure that price has not poked through yet because that is when we enter our trade. When price tells us which one of these lines it broke after after we did our price action or after we did our chart analysis, then we know what position to take. So, we've got number one, mark up the charts. Number two, wait for price to break one of these lines. Number three is when we take action, we get into a trade. Number four, stay in the trade until price breaks another line. So, it's just a matter of drawing lines and watching price either respect or break them. Example number one, we understand it. We see that we've marked up our chart. We've got an upward trend line. We've captured as many touch points as possible. Now, when we're referring to touch points, what I like to do is call them point A or point B. Point A is the pivot point. That's where it stays put. And then point B is where we get to move or adjust the line to any angle that we wish, any angle that we desire. So when you watched the example videos, you saw that we were able to position these lines wherever we wanted. But it was when we did that second click that solidified it. It put it on the screen. It marked it up. So I like to refer to this very first touch point as point A. So we've got our upward trend line and this very first touch point is point A. The second touch point is point B. Point A, point B. So, this is just kind of helping catching you guys up on terminology. You'll hear me say this many, many, many times today. Point A, point B. This is our upward trend line. Now, we've got another point A. This is our downward trend line. This is, remember, we have still followed the rules to the T. This trend line, yes, one, it's angled down. Great job. Two, we've tried to capture as many touch points as possible. In three, we followed our rule by making sure that price has not intersected. Price hasn't poke poked through. Price hasn't crossed through yet. So, our upward and our downward trend lines here are correct. This is our point A and this is our point B. This is the second point where the price has touched on the trend line. When price does break, now we get to actually call this line something other than an upward or a downward. An action line is the line that was broken. This triggers our decision to place a trade. Now, the coolest part is we never know which one it's going to break. When we did our chart analysis here, right here, we didn't know which one was going to get broken. In this scenario, price is going down. When price breaks, that is our trigger. That's our indication to take action. That's why it's called an action line. This is where we enter a position. Safety line. Now, that once one line gets broken, both lines now get a name. Now, they actually get named. Think of it like Dobby and Harry Potter. Once he finally gets that sock, now he's It doesn't make any sense. I That was an analogy I thought we were going to thought it was going to work. It didn't. Okay. But when Price breaks our lines, now we get to call them something. Now it gets to have a name. So at first it was just simply an upward line and a downward line. We don't have an action and a safety until price breaks. Safety line. The safety line is the opposite line to the action line. This line keeps us safe. This line tells us how long to stay in our trade. Safety line is everything. Safety line equals risk management. Safety line equals stop-loss. Safety line equals risk. Whatever you guys want to call it. For the newbies, just know that this is called a safety line. Next example here is what it looks like to actually play out. So, we know when to get in. This is where we would get in. This is a completely separate example here of what it looks like to also get out. So, we know when to get in, but now when do we get out here? We get out because our safety line was crossed. I want you guys to see what it looks like in and out just to start us out, just to keep us going, to keep us excited. Entry, exit. This is a full trade. This is a round trip transaction. And everything that told us to get in and to get out was done purely with trend lines. Now, the horizontal lines, what are the horizontal lines? When do we draw horizontal lines? What is consolidation? What is price action? What are the horizontal lines here? We are going to add the horizontal lines as a bonus, but I have to preface it with saying that um this is mostly for the experienced traders, for the vets. Um the horizontal lines, newbies, just plug your ears. Just don't even listen right now. The horizontal lines are just added confirmation. It is not the meat of the strategy here. So I will be talking about horizontal lines today but it will just be a bonus but essentially this is the basic term for them. There are a lot more terms for the horizontal lines. Some people will call them support and resistance. Some people will call them supply and demand. My uncle used to call them high watermarks and low water marks. I will call them support and resistance usually. But it's just essentially a horizontal line. A key level also another term here. Let me say it again. It is not the meat of the strategy. Actually for the vet traders, I need you guys if you are trying to replicate this system and this strategy today, I need you to write that down. Horizontal lines or support and resistance is not the meat of the strategy. Otherwise, I would have called myself a support and resistance trader. I am a trend line trader. I only use support and resistance as added confirmations. Okay, let's keep it going. Moving on to risk management. Here we go. Risk management here. This right here is a lowrisk setup. Why? Why is it a low-risk setup? We've drawn our downward trend line and we've drawn our upward trend line. We know what an action line is and we know what a safety line is. We know that the safety line tells us how long to stay in the trade. We know that it equals our stop-loss. We know that it equals our risk management. The safety line is everything. That's going to tell us how much of a loss to take. That's going to tell us how much profit to take. It's the safety line is everything. A low-risk setup is a trade opportunity where the potential loss is small and clearly defined while the potential gain could be significantly larger. So it's just thinking this is a low risk. Think of it like a why not trade. If I'm just going to put cents on this and I could potentially make dollars, it's a lowrisk trade. So for the newbies, this is another term that I need you guys to write down. Low-risk setup, a trade opportunity where the potential loss fee is small. That's about it. And if you want to just screenshot this, you can go ahead and do that, too. So now, the reason why this specific example is called a high-risk setup is because the distance from where the price is at right now to the safety line is far away. Visually, we can see that it's very clear to see. Now, we'll start adding numbers to it the more we go into it. We'll start adding percentages to our risk. Um, we'll start adding stop-loss placement. But right now, I just want us to visually understand the difference between a high-risisk and a low-risk setup. The stop loss is, think of it like the fire extinguisher. Remember we had gone over the kitchen analogy. Um the kitchen fire analogy when you're making dinner and in case there's a fire, what can we have handy in case things go wrong? This is it. Stop-loss. Stop-loss equals fire extinguisher. This keeps us from losing all our money. in case we get distracted, in case we get into the markets and we don't follow the king or we don't want to. This is kind of like a fail safe. It's going to close your trade regardless. So, stop loss equals fire extinguisher. Now, as far as the placement, where does the stop loss go? We always want to make sure it is on the other side of the safety line. So, for the experienced traders, for the vet traders that have maybe always wondered where does the stop loss go, you can take this screenshot here. Um, for the vet traders that are taking notes, your rule of thumb is that the stop-loss should never be on the safety line because we anticipate price to respect the safety line. Newbie traders, just kind of close your ears for a second here. For the vet traders, we anticipate that the price will respect the safety line and continue to move in our favor. So, we will never put the stop loss on the safety line. It will always be on the other side. Now, let's get into the actual numbers. Here we go. So, rule of thumb. Um, this is always great to just screenshot. This is this is the industry-wide rule of thumb and everyone this is where this is the age-old question. This is what everyone asks and this is what we need to have very clear and understand before we actually place trades, especially before we start placing live trades. We need to make sure that our fees is a fee. Now, what does that number look like? How do I know what a fee is, Tori? Fee fee equals loss. We're going to be using these calculations above to help identify what our fees should look like. Our fees should be 2% of our capital. Now, for the vet traders, newbies, plug your ears. Vet traders, I love that I'm just moving from side to side here. Vet traders, this number can change the more experience that you get in trading. I now risk about four, sometimes 5%, sometimes six. I've even risked seven at times before based on intuition, based on the weight of a setup. Um, but it's also based on my 10 years of trading experience. To the newbies, back to the newbies, when you're starting out, this is a great rule of thumb. 1 to 2% of your capital should equal your fee. How do we calculate that? Right here, we got capital size. Let's say that you are trading with $3,000 worth of capital. What does a fee look like? What is a a normal loss look like if you're trading with $3,000 worth of capital? It is $60. Now, we can always use the one to 2%. It could be 1%. It could be 2%. just we'll we'll air on the side of two now just to keep it universal, but one to 2%. Now, let's say that you are trading $5,000 worth of capital. You need to be risking $100 per trade. That's what your fee is. Now, you guys can see the number keeps going up higher and higher and higher. So, now that makes sense. When we're talking about my account size, when I'm trading with $500, $600,000 worth of trading capital, my fee looks a lot freaking bigger than the $3,000 trader fee. They're only looking at $60. So, this is all going to be relative to capital size. How much capital do you have to trade or how much are you trading with? When we start our sim trading journey, we want to use the most realistic number that we'll actually be trading with. So, this is our risk management. This is our rule of thumb here. The point of this is we're working with probabilities and we're keeping this percentage so small that the likelihood of us catching a win and offsetting that is very high. So we would have to take a hundred trades in a row that each one are a loss before we actually blow an account. And the likelihood of us actually doing that is so slim. So this is the point of us keeping our capital and working with probabilities. So if you haven't already screenshot this rule of thumb, this is our risk management system. This is what it looks like on different account sizes. And these are the actual fees that we need to be paying. Quick summary. We're just doing a quick overview here. We've got our downward trend lines. It shows you where the price may continue to get pushed down. So, we know how to draw them. We know that we're trying to identify as many touch points as possible. We know that it's angling down. We know that we're not intersecting price yet. Upward trend lines, we know that they angle up. It's holding the price up. We know that we're trying to capture as many touch points as possible. and same rule, price doesn't intersect. We've got it. Amazing. Together, these lines will guide your entries, your exits, and your risk management. This is essentially the strategy in a nutshell. What we've gone over, you've been able to identify your action lines, your safety lines, you've been able to identify higher risk and low-risk setups. Now, that's left is to just kind of get more into the nitty-gritty, more into the the kind of the nuances of it. Um, adding more criteria. Now, the horizontal lines, we're going to get more into those a little bit later, but it's going to be a bonus. Remember, this is a bonus. Vet traders, it is not the meat of the strategy. This is just added confirmation. Newbie traders, you guys get a bonus lesson on marking up support and resistance and key levels here. But essentially, the horizontal lines, the key levels, the support and resistance, we're going to call them support and resistance just because that's what I do, but it is essentially the horizontal lines that you see on the chart. they can give extra confirmation or added confirmation when you are analyzing your key areas on the chart. We will get into that later. All right. Now, step two, before we get into charts, I need you guys to understand testing before we actually get into the chart analysis itself. Before we actually walk through this together, before I hold your hand and we do this together, the testing aspect. So, remember, we've got our upward trend line, we've got our downward trend line. We understand that when price breaks the trend line, it's our action. We call this a trend line break, but essentially the trend line break is a type of setup. It is a a way to identify an entry using our trend lines. Our trend lines is going to be the holy grail of our strategy. It is the entire system, but we can also come in a little bit closer. So, we've we've started with this broad overview, and now we're just kind of narrowing it down a little bit more. So, we're starting to get a little bit more momentum. We're going to work a little bit quicker, but this type of setup is called a trend line break. And it's it is point blank period about as easy as it gets. Um, for the newbies, you guys are welcome to screenshot this. And just remember, keep a mental note. This is a type of setup. Moving on. Now, we've got some pros and cons to the break, the trend line break one. Now, this is specifically, these terms are going to be specifically for the vet traders. Um, and we get these questions all the time. Newbie traders, you might not even know what an indicator is, which is amazing. But for the vet traders, we do not use indicators for our entries or our exits or for this trend line break setup. We don't. We will just purely use our trend lines and price action, which is amazing. This is a very clear rule-based system. Very clear rule-based. This is what this system is. step by step, we're just drawing lines and following rules. Remember, if you can draw lines and follow rules, you can succeed in this strategy, and that's all we're doing. So, very clear rule-based system. This builds patience. It builds discipline. Um, being able to act on the rules. So, this strategy specifically helps develop that that trait, patience, because we have to wait once we've done our top down analysis. We have to literally sit on our hands and wait for price to break. This is well-defined setup. It's very I mean we clearly have understood price breaks you get in. Price breaks you get in it's an action line. Price breaks the opposing line you get out it's the safety line. It works on multiple instruments. Now the coolest part and I don't think the the vet traders have even noticed. The reason why I'm showing you guys this example right here. Um I'm going to quickly pivot to the vet traders because this this part is fascinating and this part makes so much sense for the vet traders. You would never I'm sorry, but I know for a fact you would not be able to tell me what instrument this is, what time frame this is, or what market this is based on this example right here. I know for a fact you won't be able to tell me it. You won't be able to tell me what time frame or what instrument this is. And this showcases that this strategy can work on any instrument, any time frame in any market because it is purely price action. We're just drawing lines on a chart and waiting for price to break. So, it does not matter what time frame you're in. It doesn't matter what chart you're trading. It doesn't matter what instrument or what market. All we are doing is drawing lines on our chart. So, this is the cool This is like, oh, you're right. I don't know what time frame this is. I don't know what instrument this is, but I can see exactly where we would draw the lines. So, this is just kind of one of the cool parts about the um the strategy itself and especially this setup, this trend line break setup. Now, this is starting to go a little bit more into the nitty-gritty. So, this is newbie traders. You guys are doing amazing following along. We're going to continue the momentum here. But now, when we get the break, so you guys know action line, you guys know safety line. This is creating some more criteria, getting a little bit more into the nitty-gritty when we're presented with an entry, which we know price has to break one of these lines. So, you guys can see in this example right here, we've got price breaking through the upward trend line. When we get this break here, we know this is when we enter. But now, what are some things that we've noticed? And this is something that I have noticed over the past 10 years. I have been able to identify certain types of setups. Remember, I said a trend line break is a type of setup. Now, I want to I want to know a little bit more. I want to know more than just the simple break. I want to know when price breaks and I get an action and I've got a safety, how many touch points, how many times has the price respected these lines? And this is called a two touch point trend line break. So when price breaks our line, we got an action, but this is where it has two touch points prior. This is now getting into the science experiment aspect. So now we're kind of shifting from that elementary, that beginner, that newbie. I understand the strategy. I understand trends. We got action line. We got safety line. I know when to get in, when to get out. Amazing. But now we're going to get a little bit more scientific with it. Now we want to know a little bit more. We want to we're just curious what does this specific setup have in common or what outcome does it have versus this setup. So these are some things that we're going to get more in depth on but this is the the basic overview is when presented with a setup. How many touch points does it have? I'm curious. This is what it looks like on an actual chart. We've got a two touch point trend line break. This is just getting a little bit more scientific and wanting to know a little bit more about the setup. If I told you this was just a simple we got a action line, a safety line, you guys would be following. But now we're just knowing, we just want to know a little bit more. This specific setup is a two touch point trend line break. We've got something called a three touch point trend line break. Same system, same setup, same criteria. We've got an action line and a safety line. We've got a high-risisk and a low-risk setup. Amazing. You guys are following along. But now we want to know something a little bit more. When price breaks, how many touch points did it have? This specific setup had three touch points. And this is what it looks like on an actual chart here. Same system, same setup. We're getting in because price broke a line and we're staying in because it's respecting our safety line. But this is what a three touch point trend line break looks like. These are just different types of setups. This is us getting more curious and getting into a little bit more of the nitty-gritty and a little bit more of the nuances and creating treating it more like a science experiment than just our basic entry and exit. So now we're just getting a little bit more calculated with it. Two touch point trend line break, three touch point trend line break. Now we've got this one I'm getting ready to throw y'all for a loop. So get ready and buckle up. This is something completely new. We haven't gone over it yet, but I trust that you guys can follow. You understand? When price breaks, that's our entry. We've got an action line. We've got a safety line. This is something very new for the newbie traders. Go ahead and take a screenshot of this one. This is a term that we haven't gone over yet. This is called a break and retest. For the vet traders, you guys may know what this is and you're like, "Finally, I was waiting for her to talk about it." Now is the time we are talking about the break and retest. What is the break and retest? You guys already know what the break is. Very clear. I'm just adding one extra step. A retest is when price breaks our action line. We know which one is an action. We know which one is a safety. It is when price breaks our action line and then touches it from the other side or retests it from the other side. This is just yet another type of setup. Remember, we have a trend line break setup and then we've got a two touch point trend line break. We got a three touch point trend line break. This is just yet another setup. All the same strategy, just different ways to look at it. We are just trying to identify the the science experiment version of it. This is a break and retest. Price breaks our action line and touches it from the other side. As simple as that. Touches our action line from the other side. Now, this is what it looks like on an actual chart. This is the break. We've got one, two, three touch points. Amazing. We got our downward trend line. We got an upward. We know which one is an action. We know which one is a safety, which amazing. You guys are doing incredible that you're already following along. Now, this is an example where the price broke the line. The downward red line is our action and then it came back and touched it from the other side. This is called a break and retest. It's very straightforward. Break retest. Touches it from the other side. This is just a a different type of setup. Break retest. Now, this one also going to throw you guys for a loop here, but this is this is one that I used to implement in my very early trading years. This is called the bounce. So, the only difference here is we're not waiting for price to break. We're actually waiting for price to bounce off of it. So, this is why this is called a bounce playbook or a bounce setup for the newbie traders. Um, I just realized I didn't say what playbook was, but playbook equals setup. One and the same. But this right here is a bounce playbook or a bounce setup. This is where we are anticipating that the price is going to bounce off of the downward trend line. Amazing. Now, when do we close the trade? We know when to get in. Okay. If price bounces off the line, amazing guy, that's our action. When do we get out? The action line and the safety line is one and the same. If the price finally breaks the line, breaks the safety, just like we've always done before, just like we went over in the past, that's our indication to get out. This is an example of the bounce setup in real time on the chart. So, we've got price respected this line. You can see it's got these three touch points, these three circles. Each one of these touches are indications to get in enttry. Remember price if it respects it, if it bounces off of it, it becomes action and safety. Okay. Now, I just wanted to show you guys these ideas, these examples before we get into it. I just don't want you guys to be so thrown off. We will go through these step by step on the charts, but I just need you guys to see at least a visual representation of it. Okay, if we're turning trading into a science experiment, what does it look like to create these different types of setups? Now, we've got to have some sort of hypothesis when we're coming into trading or when we're coming when we're turning trading into a science experiment. So, these are just different types of setups. So, you've you've at least got one screenshot photo version idea of what a three- touch point trend line break looks like, what a two touch point trend line break looks like, what a break and retest looks like, and what a bounce looks like. These are just different types of setups, but we've got our triedand-true trend line break setup. We that is the meat of the strategy. This is what we've gone over for most of today's strategy session. But now tracking this is the last step here before we actually get into the charts and place our first trade. You guys are doing amazing. Let's keep up. Let's keep it going. This is one of the most important parts. If we are implementing all of this science experiment, different playbooks, different setups, we have got to track what's working, what is making you more money and what's losing you more money. And this is where the tracking comes into play. Now we can start getting more curious about the types of setups that we're taking. Journaling helps you see reoccurring mistakes or reoccurring setups that are working or not. This is where you can get a bird's eye view of, oh, I took a Now, the reason why we need to know these names or these terms is so that we can help kind of double down on what is working or comb out what's not. But now that you know what a bounce setup is or a two touch point trend line break or a three touch point trend line break or a break and retest. Now that you know what those are, you can experiment. Now we can treat this like a science fair project and see which one of these works best for us. Which one of these works best for our instrument, best for our time frame, best for our market. We've got to be able to see the reoccurring setup. So we've got to be able to track this. Having a record on every trade forces us to be so much more intentional. Otherwise, we could it is so easy to just aimlessly start placing trades. We've got to track it. We've got to see what is working, what's not. We've got to track everything so that at the end of the week, at the end of the day, at the end of the month, are we in the green? How many trades did we take? What types of setups did we take? This stops you from impulsive trades. Revenge trading. If you newbies don't know what revenge trading is, you will soon. You will soon. But this also creates a record. So this is the coolest part. This is where I get to showcase my trading because I have a record of it. I have a record of all of the trades that I've placed for the for years and years and years so that you can see guess what the strategy works. Then if you want to get more into the nitty-gritty, okay, Tori's strategy works amazing up top. But now let's see what types of setups are is she taking that's working. And this is where this is just cold hard facts. These are numbers. They don't lie. It's very clear. It's fact. You can't argue with this. This is where tracking our trades and being intentional with our setups and making sure that we're tracking every trade. We're creating a record so that we can collectively see overall is this working or not. It keeps you honest if I'm being real. If you guys are going on tilt and then you go back and look at your numbers, oh maybe I placed maybe 20 trades today, that's a little excessive. 40 trades in a week, maybe that's a little excessive. So it keeps you honest also. And it shows progress over time, which is amazing. I mean, you want to be able to see the results. You want to be able to see actually the $300 trade that you placed that I placed years ago versus the trade that you were placing now. Is there a difference? Is there any progress? Are you doing better? So, it's just being able to see your progress over time. One of the most fulfilling things. Sometimes it's easy to kind of lose sight. If you go 90 days from now and you haven't tracked anything that you've done now, you won't be able to see the progress. So, start tracking what you're doing right now, your trading that you're doing now. So, that 90 days from now, I mean a year from now, six months from now, two years, three years, four years like me, five years like me, see the difference from the trades at the beginning to now. It is a clear representation of the progress you've made and it is so fulfilling. It's like, oh, lost sight a little bit. Didn't think I was making much progress. Oh, when you compare it to the first trades you placed, you're doing incredible. So, solid journaling gives you the data. The data will give you what you need to justify, ooh, this is the best part is when you do start to finally increase your position size. This is where you cannot cannot and you should not and you definitely don't start increasing position size until your data is showing that you can do this consistently. You can be profitable and you can do it over and over again. You can repeat it. You can replicate it over time. And now just purely by working off data and showing that it works based on probabilities as well. Does your losers outweigh your winners? Now we can even consider position position sizing up increasing position size and that's moving from maybe one micro contract to two microcontracts. Maybe it's moving from 10 microcontracts to one mini, maybe two minis. Um maybe it's moving from one share to two shares of something. So, this is just where tracking and being able to see it done over time will help justify if it's time to increase your position size. Now, what are some of the ways that you can track your trading? You could use a notebook. You could write down your trades. You could write down your entry. I've done this. I used to do this um many, many years ago. I actually had a ledger card, but you could write down um the date, the time. You could write down the instrument that you're trading. Maybe it's Apple, maybe it's crude oil. You could write down the price you got in at $110, how long you stayed in your trade, the price you closed it at, and then how much money you made. You could do that for every trade. You could um is it very difficult to do? I will say yes. As a day trader placing multiple trades a day, that does get redundant and it does get very hard to be consistent. Is it possible? Yes. Is it a little bit harder to track the data overall? Now, yes, you'll be able to see at the end of the day, are you positive or negative at the end of the week, but it just becomes very difficult to start collecting that data. Absolutely possible though using a notebook. You could even use a spreadsheet, something like Excel or Google Sheets. Same scenario here. You would enter maybe the time, the price, when you got in, when you got out, how much you made, but it's still very manual. It's just you're typing instead of writing it down. Also, still very possible. Or you can use a trading platform that has a built-in journal. Screenshots also could work for journaling. Voice and video logs could work for journaling. So, there's a lot of different options here. The the point is though, you need to track it some way. If if one of these calls to you more than the other, then do it. But the point is, if you're using the the video logs, if you're using the screenshots, if you're using the trading platform, if you're using the spreadsheet or the notebook, the point is we need to be able to track it though. Overall, we need to see, okay, what's working and what's not. Now, this is an example of what a journaling platform looks like. This is specifically Tradezella. This is an example of what my notes look like when you are tracking your trade. Now, what's super cool about Tradzella is it does it automatically. And I'm not here to sell you on Tradesella. I'm just telling you it makes your life a little bit easier. It is synced with my brokerage and it will automatically populate and pop in my trades every time I place one. The only thing that I need to do is go into the notes section and add some of the nitty-gritty. I was working. I was feeling this way. Um, I felt good about this loss. I felt bad about this loss. And I can add tags, time frames, mistakes, all of the things. So, you can just get so much more scientific with it, which is how we want to treat trading like a science fair project. We want to add as many notes as possible so that we can calculate our calculations. According to my calculations, this is working or this is not. A scientist doesn't just run the experiment once and then guess what happens. No, we carefully record every step and track everything. We are taking notes. We're looking at it from different angles. We're trying to see, okay, yes, no, yes, no. But the variables need to be small. Is my point here. Over time, those notes will reveal patterns. It will confirm your theories. Maybe you thought, I suck at the retest, or I I hate the break and retest. It never works. Well, if you go back and look at data over time, that was just a theory in the moment. Tracking, journaling. Collect your data. Track, journal, trade, track, journal, trade, track, journal. Every single trade, the setup, the reasoning you took the trade, the outcome. This becomes part of your experiment. You're not guessing. I don't want you guys guessing after this today. You want to look back. You want to spot the patterns. You want to refine your approach. This is how you move from the random trial and error to actually running a strategy like a scientist. Now, we're getting ready to get into the charts. The training, we understood, we walked through the system. We know what the system is. We know what the steps are. We know what the setup is. Amazing testing. Now, we need to get the reps in. Now, we need to do it together in real time on the charts so that we can we can test it. We can see that it works. We get the reps and we we build that muscle memory. And then last is tracking. We need to build a a record. Just essentially, we need to build a record. so that all of the training we've done, all of the testing we've done is being tracked so that we know what's working and what's not. Okay, guys, we're getting into it. We're placing our first trade together. We're going to start with an instrument called crude oil. So, let's for the newbies, let's just take a little reset. Here we go. Now, we're actually seeing this implemented. We're going to actually put this into play. Okay, so we're going to be moving into the monthly time frame here. To move to the monthly time frame, we're going to go up to the time frames at the top left and hit the one month. This right here is the dinosaur icon. This is telling us that we're looking at the very beginning. Now, we're going to start with our top down analysis. Here we go. So, remember when we're drawing our upward trend lines and we're drawing our downward trend lines, we want to make sure we're trying to capture as many touch points as possible, it actually has a downward or upward angle. But also, the key point here is to make sure that price does not intersect. So, we've got point A here and point B here. I'm going to change the color to red. We got our first trend line. Amazing. We can't come in any steeper because if we did, this price would have poked through. So, we are dragging that point B to the most recent touch point. All right, let's keep going. Now, we want to draw our upward trend line. Point A, lowest point we see on the screen here. Point B, we're just going to try to capture as many touch points as possible without price intersecting. I do not for the experienced traders I do not use the magnet tool. I just simply draw my lines manually. All right. So just two lines. That's it. We got two lines on the chart, a downward and an upward. But now remember this is a top down analysis. So we are working from the top moving down. We are in the monthly time frame. We're going to now move down. We started in the monthly. Let's move to the weekly. Now, there's going to be instances where when you zoom in, you come in a little bit closer, things look a little bit wonky. We just need to make some slight adjustments to make sure that it's on the correct spot. Okay, this needs to be slightly adjusted here, and this needs to be slightly adjusted here. We're just getting a little bit more precise as we come in closer and closer. Now, one of the coolest parts is when we moved from the monthly to the weekly, there wasn't much of a change here as far as our downward lines and our upward lines go. So we can actually continue to do our top down analysis without having to do much additional line work here. So give me just a moment. Give me just a moment. We're moving from the weekly to the daily time frame. Weekly time frame, daily time frame. Now the charts look different. Now we can start drawing some more lines here. All we did so far, we went from the monthly to the weekly. Now we're in the daily. All right, we've got our upward trend line. As we zoom in a little bit closer, we just got to make some slight modifications. Now, we are in the daily time frame. We're going to do the same thing. We're going to draw a downward trend line. Now, remember that rule I told you guys to remember the rule here. Our lines have to connect and they cannot intersect. So, all of the lines that we draw from higher time frames down to lower time frames have to connect. They're always going to connect to the previous point B. This right here was a point B on the last line. Now, when we're drawing a new line, it starts at the point B of the last line. Same rule here. We're trying to capture as many touch points as possible without price intersecting. Now, I'm going to make this one red. Beautiful. Beautiful. Now, we need another upward trend line. We are going to select the ray tool. Remember, previous point B or the previous touch point, the most recent touch point that's on the last trend line is going to be the new touch point on the new trend line. Here we go. Point A, point B. Now, we're going to change the color now. Daily to 4 hour. We're going to 4 hour next. Now, we're in the 4 hour time frame. Remember, as you zoom in closer, things will our lines will look a little bit off because we're starting to get more and more precise. So, we'll need to adjust them slightly. Slightly adjust that one. And this one looks perfect. Now, we need to come in with some steeper trend lines. Remember, you can use that zoom in, zoom out button to help you view the price a little bit better. You can drag to scoot the price over. Now, we're coming in with a steeper downward trend line. We're just going to continue to do this. Rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat until we make it to our designated time frame. All right, remember that rule. Each trend line has to connect to one another. Higher time frame trend line here. This is its most recent touch point. This will be our newest touch point for a new trend line. Here we go. All right, we have created our point A and our point B. Trying to capture as many touch points as possible without price intersecting. And I'm just going to change the color really quick to red. This is as far as we can go in the 4 hour. Let's continue to move down even lower. So, we've done monthly, we've done weekly, we've done daily, let's do 4hour, now we're going to move to 1 hour time frame. Now, we need to make some slight adjustments again cuz it's a little bit off. Here we go. There we go. Now, we can come in with a steeper upward trend line here. We're going to come in with another upward trend line. Previous touch point is going to be the new start of our new line. Here we go. capturing as many touch points as possible without price intersecting. This is our top- down analysis. So far, we have made it to the one hour time frame. Started in the monthly, move to the weekly, the daily, the 4 hour, now the 1 hour. We're going to continue to move down lower and lower and lower until we make it to the fiveinut chart. This is where we're going to stop. The five minute time frame. We're going from 1 hour to 30 minute. We need to slightly adjust this one. 30 minute time frame. Amazing. Now we're going to continue even lower 30 minute to the five minute. This is where we see the most amount of information. We get to see so much information here. So much noise. Okay. Also rule of thumb when you drag your point B it is always best to drag it to the most recent touch point so that you don't lose it. When you're doing the top down analysis and you leave these points like let's say that I I left this one down here. when I come into the five-minute time frame, I won't be able to go back and find where that pivot point is. So, just being able to have that pivot point readily available is super helpful. Just a little trading view tip, especially when you're on the mobile device. Now, for this line here, as we're coming in closer and getting a little bit more precise, I can see that if I go any farther, if I move the price down, if I move the line down any further to try and capture this touch point right here, you can see this is poking through. I know it's not much and it's ever so slight, but if we're just following the rules to an absolute T, we're going to take this touch point, move it to this last high, and then just simply draw one more coming down. One more coming in. All right, here we go. I'm going to make this red again. Now, remember, we're in the fivem minute time frame and we're doing our top down analysis. We started in the monthly and we're going to continue down. We are including wicks for the experienced traders. And we're just going to use that zoom in button to help us see price a little bit clearer. Remember, we're going to have to make some modifications here because as we zoom in closer, we're looking at more price action and we're getting a little bit more precise. So, we'll just have to make some slight adjustments to these lines as we continue. Now, we're going to stay in the 5minut time frame. Remember, we've got a very clear system and a very clear structure and a very clear setup. we have to wait for price to break one of our lines in order for us to signify an entry or to take action. Right now, price is not anywhere near either one of these lines. So, that's just a good rule of thumb or a good indication that we need to come in steeper with some lines. We need to track more price action. So, I'm going to get this trend line here. I'm going to connect it to my previous trend line and continue to move closer and closer. There we go. Price is very close to breaking this downward trend line. Price is right at it. Now we're going to come in with another upward trend line. Absolutely beautiful, beautiful price action here. Okay, we have all of our upward lines. We have all of our downward lines. Now is the moment where we have to be patient. We have to be patient and wait for our setup. Regardless of what direction it takes, we are simply going to just follow the price. We're not trying to predict which line is going to follow along. We are simply just waiting for the price. Make sure that we have the trading panel selected at the bottom. So, make sure you go to the bottom of your page here in Trading View. This is where we're going to be sim trading. This is fake money, paper money, not real. Price moving up. It is breaking through this downward trend line. This is telling us to take action, to place a trade. The price is telling us, we've seen it done enough times today on all of the examples on all of the different setups that we've gone over earlier today. This is indicating an entry because our action line has now been broken or our downward trend line has now been called an action line. Let's go over the stop-loss. Let's go over how much money am I willing to lose. Now, right now, this fake account, this paper trading account has a balance of $100,000 in it. So, this paper trading account, now you guys can modify this, has a balance of $100,000. If we go over the high-risk or low risk situation, we have to identify if the price decides to change direction and go the opposite way. What is our fee? How much are we willing to lose? Now, to be able to set that fee, to set that stop-loss, you'll see a TP, which is take profit. We're not going to need that. But stop loss is what we do need. This is our stop loss here to the right. SL. Now, remember at the very beginning when we went over strategy today, I mentioned that we're going to go over what a stop-loss is, but we're also going to identify where to place this the stop-loss. If you select and drag, you can drag this stop-loss and it's going to show you how much dollar amounts you're going to lose if the price gets here. So, if you look to the right hand side, it says $90. If we drag it a little bit farther, it says $110. So remember, depending on your account size will be if is this a fee or am I abiding by my 1 to2% rule. Now obviously with my $100,000 account, this $100 loss is absolutely a fee. If anything, I should be trading with more contracts to abide by that 1 to2% rule. We're going to drag this stop-loss on the other side of the action line. I'm sorry, other side of the safety line. So we're going to drag and let go. This has officially solidified my stop loss. If the price turns around and breaks my safety line, I am losing $100. If the price of crude oil comes up a little bit, amazing. We're making money. Okay. If it pulls back, as long as the price of crude oil can move in respect, move along and respect our safety line, this upward trend line, we will be making money. If it comes up to here, we're up 40 bucks. If it comes up to here, we're up $90. If it comes up to here, we're up 120. Up to here, 150. Here and here and here. As long as it respects this upward trend line, we're safe. That's why it's called a safety line. Now, as soon as it breaks the safety line, that indicates our exit. That means we close our trade. So, we know when to get in action line, and now we know when to get out. So, I want to see this entire trade play out so that we know when to get in and when to get out. Price continues to move along our safety line. Boom. We close our position when price breaks. Let's say that come back tomorrow and you want to trade. I'm just going to do a super last quick example here. Let's say the price we're moving. We're moving and grooving. Here we go. Price is somewhere here. And you want to continue to practice this strategy. You want to continue to get the reps in. You want to continue to practice anytime before we place a trade. Remember that the price cannot yet intersect because the price has to tell us which one is going to become an action and which one is going to become a safety. So when we're doing our top down analysis and we're doing our charting here, we're going to make sure that we adjust our line. We got a point A, we got a point B. Okay, if price was to do something like this and you wanted to come back and get into another trade, we do our top down analysis. We make sure that our lines are in the correct spot. Our downward trend line hasn't been intersected. It's angling downward. We're trying to capture as many touch points as possible. And then for the upward trend line, same scenario. We're making sure that we have an upward trend line. Price hasn't intersected and we're capturing as many touch points as possible. This is where we wait for price to break. So our lines are set. Now, if you come back in a few hours, you come back tomorrow, you draw your lines and then you wait. If it breaks here, you guys know we've got a break, we've got an entry, we've got an action, we got a safety. If price breaks this way, same scenario. You guys know we have a break, we have an entry, this is our action line, this is our safety line. So you guys can identify an entry. You'll be able to identify if this is high risk or low risk depending on your account size. So everything that you've learned today, I just want you guys to get the reps in now and continue to do it over and over again. We did it. It's official. You guys stuck in there. You hung on. I'm so proud of every single one of you guys. Bye guys. Thank you.